I've seen death,
I've seen...
my friends,
my men being killed.
And, uh...
This is...
It doesn't take
too many days of that
and you change
dramatically.
We was hungry,
we had no food.
We didn't have
much ammunition.
It was cold.
We didn't have any clothes.
You couldn't
build a fire.
If you built fire,
some crazy thing
would shoot at ya.
Everywhere you would look,
you would see dead people.
A dead soldier there, here,
ours, theirs.
Then civilians besides.
Dead animals.
So, death
was all over.
You don't have a chance
when your friends go down
to-- to really...
take care of 'em
as you might.
And especially if you're under
attack, moving, or whatever.
I withstood it well,
but I had a lot
of trouble in later life...
because... those events
would come back and...
and you never forget 'em.
(theme music playing)
♪ ♪
Lipton:
After holding the line
at Bastogne,
Easy Company was once again
called on to help push
the Germans back
through the bulge.
We were here this morning
and then we came this way.
Right, so, right here's
gotta be the logging road
coming into here...
Lipton: Yes, sir.
which means
we get right there.
Hey, take it easy.
Stop crying, Malark,
or I'll nail it to your head.
You should,
it's made of wood.
Guarnere, move 'em out,
let's go.
Yes, sir.
2nd Platoon,
let's go!
Lipton: I was glad
to be out of my foxhole
and moving again...
Come on, let's go.
even if only to get warm.
Man:
Spread out,
keep your interval.
"E" Company was sent
to clear the Bois Jacques,
the woods near
the town of Foy,
in preparation for what
we all knew would be
the eventual assault
on Foy itself.
Man: I see it, Buck.
Compton: Watch for mines.
Lipton:
During that 1,000 yard
attack through the woods,
we encountered sporadic
German machine-gun fire
and had a couple
of casualties.
But, for the most part,
met little resistance.
(speaking German)
Lipton: Hoobler's run-in
with the German officer
on horseback
was the most dramatic
moment of the day.
Halt!
(whinnies)
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Halt!
(gun firing)
(chuckles)
(laughing)
Oh, shit.
(laughs)
Thank you.
(chattering)
Lipton: Hoobler had
been talking about getting
a Luger since Normandy.
As we dug in, he went
from foxhole to foxhole
telling everyone just how
he'd finally got one.
And down he goes,
right out of the saddle,
like a sack
of potatoes.
Outstanding accuracy
on my part,
if I do say so myself.
Which you do.
Which I do.
Hell, Shifty, I think maybe
I could have even given you
a run for
your money, right?
No, no, I'm not
a good shot.
Now, Dad, he was
an excellent shot.
Excellent, I declare,
he'd shoot the wings
off a fly.
Hey, Lip, that German,
what'd you think he was doing?
Probably
a little recon.
He must have figured
nobody would hear a horse.
I think he was just trying
to get the hell out of Dodge.
Yeah.
What happened
to the horse?
I don't know,
probably still running.
Hope he's okay.
You dug in?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, just thought I'd take
a walk, shoot the shit.
Well, you're
a good shot, Hoob.
Just glad
you're on our side.
Thanks, Lip.
Hey, Lip?
Yeah.
Thanks for the help.
You got it,
Shifty.
Hey, Lip?
Yes.
You got a sec?
Yes, sir.
Give him a hand.
Where's Dike?
He's, er--
he's around.
Could you be a little more
specific there, Sergeant?
Not really, sir.
Godammit, I haven't
seen him all day.
I didn't see him when we were
coming through the woods,
and I have to figure out
how we ended up.
Well, two wounded.
Who?
Brown and Stevenson.
Godammit.
And where's Dike?
Where the hell is he?
Where the hell
does he ever go?
I don't know, but I wish
he'd stay the hell there.
It'd be nice if he took
Lieutenant Shames with him.
Shut up, boys.
Shutting up, Sarge.
(gun fires)
Man:
Oh, hey, what
the hell is that?
Patrol?
Lipton: No, we would
have heard.
Compton:
One man,
maybe a sniper.
That was no rifle.
What do you see,
Shift?
Nobody out there.
Are you sure?
Shifty: Uh-huh.
Ah, Jesus,
it's Hoob, he's shot.
Sniper?
No, no,
he shot himself.
Stupid, stupid.
Medic!
What happened?
Doc.
Is he all right?
It's my fucking leg.
He'll be all right.
He did what?
It just went off.
What happened?
What the hell are you doing
with a loaded gun
in your pants?
Shit, Buck, I wasn't
touching it or nothing.
Godammit,
godammit.
I wasn't touching it,
I swear.
Medic!
Where are
you hit, Hoob?
Hoob, where are you hit?
In my leg.
Okay, hold on,
Hoob, hold on.
Stay calm.
Now, don't look, Hoob.
It's gonna be fine.
Don't worry about it.
Come on.
It's all right.
It hurts like
a son of a bitch.
You'll be okay.
I think maybe
I hit bone.
Doc!
Don't worry
about it, Hoob.
Warm him up,
warm him up.
Can you hear me, Hoob?
Somebody keep
him warm.
Sergeant.
Keep him warm.
Sergeant, let me
see it, huh?
(grunting)
Hang in there.
Can we get him--
warm up some blankets
or something for him?
You're gonna
be fine.
Talk to him, Hashey.
Keep talking to him.
Okay, Hoob,
listen to me, Hoob.
It's okay.
Did you think it was
a German leg, Hoob?
Doc says it ain't that bad.
(chattering)
You're gonna be fine.
Hold on, Hoob,
hold on.
Perconte, put
this across him.
Wrap him up,
wrap him up.
Hang in there, Hoob.
Come on, come on.
Hey, Lip.
You said I was
a great shot, right?
You are, man.
You're a great shot.
Come on, Hoob,
you jump out of planes.
You're tough, man.
Come on.
He's still shivering.
It's not that
bad at all, come on.
Stay with us, Hoob.
Hoob, take it easy.
It's all right.
Don't worry.
Doc, what are we gonna do?
How are we doing, doc?
Okay, you're
gonna be fine.
I can't see a thing.
We've gotta get him back
to an aid station.
Hold on tight.
All right, right, let's get
ready to move him.
Take it easy.
Stay there, Hoob.
I can't see anything,
we're gonna need to--
Doc. Doc!
Jesus.
Perco, I need a jeep.
Lipton:
He was wearing
so many clothes,
we couldn't tell
how bad he was bleeding.
By the time we got him
to the aid station,
he was already dead.
The bullet cut the main artery
in his leg, sir.
Oh hell, Lip.
It wouldn't have made
a difference if you had known.
Cut that main artery
in the leg, that's--
that's it.
Yes, sir.
Well, I'm gonna go back
and make sure the boys
are all dug in, sir.
Lip.
Where's Dike?
You wanna
see him, sir?
No, I just would
have expected to get
this kind of news
from him.
Well, I was--
I was there, sir.
Oh.
I figured it might
as well be me.
(man chattering)
Lipton:
"Where's Dike?"
I probably heard
that question 1,000 times.
I probably asked it
a few times myself.
There were long stretches
where we didn't know
where Lieutenant Dike was.
He'd disappear,
go off on these walks
for hours at a time.
Wouldn't have been so bad
if he was just one of the guys
in the company,
but Lieutenant Dike
was supposed to be
leading the company.
Right. Patrols are
gonna cover...
Lipton:
Captain Winters was a C.O.
we could all respect.
Moose Heyliger probably
would have done a good job,
but before we got
a chance to find out,
he was accidentally shot
by a sentry.
Then came
Norman Dike.
And I want tight security
around the company C.P.,
Lieutenant Shames,
that understood?
Lipton:
Dike wasn't a bad leader
because he made bad decisions.
He was a bad leader
because he made no decisions.
Now, Battalion S-3
is planning a move.
So, I will probably
be called away...
regularly.
Are there
any questions?
Er, yeah.
Um, what's the formation
you want us to go for?
At present, as per usual,
but I'll clarify that with you
at a later time,
Lieutenant Compton.
Yes, sir.
All right, I gotta
make a call.
(men chattering)
Let's move it out.
Right.
Lipton:
Dike was the favorite
of somebody at division.
He'd been sent down
to "E" Company
to get some
combat experience.
Sometimes we got
the feeling "E" Company
was an annoyance
to him,
something unpleasant
he had to get through
before he could continue
his march up the ladder.
Guarnere:
I'm telling you boys,
we're screwed.
If you ask me,
I'm glad Lieutenant Dike's
never around.
Hey, you know what?
We're doing all right,
even with
Foxhole Norman.
Yeah, Don,
we're doing all right.
We're doing all right now.
In case you ain't noticed,
there's a little town
down the hill
over there, right?
And in that town
are these guys,
and these guys
are called Germans.
And these
Germans got tanks.
I know.
Yeah.
And our side's gonna
wanna go into that town.
You wanna take one guess
at who they're gonna want
to go knocking
on the goddamn doors.
I know, Bill, all right?
It's me you're
talking to here.
Jesus Christ,
we've gotta do
all this with a C.O.
who's got his head
so far up his fucking ass
that lump in his throat
is his goddamn nose.
Hey, 1st Sergeant.
Lipton: Hey, boys.
Hey, Sarge.
Hey, Lip.
Hey, Muck,
what's the word?
Oh, you know.
Sitting around
freezing our ass off.
Singing Dike's praises.
Oh, yeah.
Lieutenant Dike.
Well, I'll tell you...
I wouldn't wanna be
a replacement officer
coming in here,
getting thrown in
with a group of guys,
who've known each other
for, what, two years?
That have been in combat
together since Normandy.
You're supposed to just
show up and lead them?
How's a guy
do that?
How could anyone really
hope to gain the respect
of the toughest,
most professional,
most dedicated sons of bitches
in the entire E.T.O.?
Huh?
So, if you ask me,
a guy'd have to...
march off to Berlin
and come back
with Hitler's moustache
or something.
(chuckling)
Anyway, listen...
You guys, don't worry
about Dike, all right?
Yeah.
We all do our jobs,
everything'll be fine.
All right.
See you, Sarge.
Yeah, boy.
Lipton:
Well, I don't know
if I believed any of that,
but as Company 1st Sergeant
it was my job.
Not to protect Dike,
but to protect the integrity
of the company.
Winters:
You know what Dike's
problem is, don't you?
Mmm.
He's just another one
of those arrogant rich jerks
from Yale.
Oh, god, not another
one of those.
(laughing)
Division's not gonna
let me replace him
just 'cause I got
a bad feeling about him.
Mm-hmm.
Even if they would,
who'd I put in his place?
Shames?
(shouting)
Do not ever talk when
I'm talking! You got that?
Winters:
Shames' seen
too many war movies.
Thinks he has
to yell all the time.
Both of you little crapheads
did not listen to a word
I said during that briefing,
did you?
Sir, yes, sir.
Or Peacock?
God bless him,
no one tries harder,
but he's not cut out
to take men into combat.
I'm sure as hell not gonna
make him company C.O.
when I don't even want him
as a platoon leader.
What about Compton?
He's the only
real choice.
Buck's a real combat leader,
but, you know...
I want Easy Company
to have at least
one experienced
platoon leader.
Not that it matters,
anyway, 'cause I can't
get rid of Dike.
Well, we all know who you'd
like to have running Easy.
Trouble is it's not
your job any more, Dick.
We've gotta
find somebody.
Lipton:
We all agreed
Buck Compton
would've been the best choice
to run Easy...
if Winters had been able
to get rid of Dike.
But, to be honest,
Buck wasn't the same
soldier he'd been
before he got
shot in Holland.
He was more
serious somehow.
He had a goddamn Luger
in his pants.
Jesus.
Guarnere: Dear god.
And don't you two do something
stupid like that, all right?
Try not to, Buck.
I mean it.
And you, Wild Bill,
I've invested too much
goddamn time
shaping you
into something useful.
(chuckles)
You do something crazy,
get yourself knocked out
of this thing--
I know, I know,
you'll kill me.
Even if you're dead,
I'll still kill you.
(laughter)
I'll see you guys later,
all right?
I'm gonna check on
the other guys.
Crazy Joe McCloskey.
What?
This guy used to hang out
the front of Delancey's
and just-- you know,
just stare at people.
Yeah, I know who
Crazy Joe McCloskey is.
What the hell's that got
to do with anything, Babe?
Hmm, Buck kind of
reminds me of him now.
What?
You know, ever since
he got shot in Holland.
Wait, wait, wait.
Wait. What,
are you saying he's nuts?
'Cause Crazy Joe McCloskey
was fucking nuts, Babe.
That's why they called
him Crazy Joe.
No, I'm not
saying he's nuts.
I'm just saying--
What? What are
you saying?
Oh, forget it.
What?
Forget it.
Oh, come on,
you've seen him, Bill.
He's-- he's all wound up
like a spring.
Hey, hey, hey,
he's fine.
It wasn't getting
shot that got him.
It was being
in that hospital.
I've been
there, okay?
It ain't pretty.
Yeah, mmm.
Besides, you saw,
once he was up
and moving around,
he was his old
self again.
I'm telling you,
Buck Compton's fine.
I'm serious.
Penkala: Sure thing,
Buck, nothing stupid.
We got it, right?
We got it.
All right.
George?
Yeah.
Nothing stupid, Buck.
"Don't do anything stupid"?
Who the hell is he talking to?
Bunch of morons
who volunteered to jump
out of a perfectly
good airplane.
Can you get any more
stupid than that?
Probably not.
Right.
I swum across
the Niagara once.
Yeah.
I swear.
On a bet.
What, in a barrel?
No.
I didn't go over
the falls, George.
I swam across
the river.
10 miles up
from the falls.
I tell you, that current
is damn strong.
Oh, yeah.
Must have carried me
at least two miles downstream
before I got across,
but I got across.
Now, personally, I didn't
think it was all that stupid,
But... my mom,
my sister, Ruth--
they gave me
all kinds of hell.
Yeah, I bet, Muck.
So did Faye.
Ah, sweet Faye Tanner.
Shut it, George.
Well, they
had a point.
You're an idiot.
Dike:
I heard about Hoobler.
Shame.
Yes, sir. It is.
That the Luger?
Yes, it is.
What are you
gonna do with it?
I don't know yet.
Where you from, Lipton?
Where'd you grow up?
Huntington,
West Virginia.
Huntington?
Yes, sir.
I don't know it.
What kind of work
did you do there?
My brother and I helped
my mom run a boarding house.
And your father?
He was...
He was killed
when I was 10, sir.
Automobile accident.
That's sad.
So, what made you decide
to join the paratroopers?
I read an article
about paratroopers
in "Life" magazine.
Talked about the training,
how hard it was.
Said if you wanted
to make it as a paratrooper,
you had to be
the best.
And I wanted to fight
with the best, sir.
You miss it?
Miss what?
Huntington.
Honestly, sir,
I... try not to think
about it that much.
Where are you from, s...
Cap'n Nixon, sir.
What?
Good morning, sir,
sorry to disturb you.
This came
from Division.
All right.
Morning.
Lew, eviction notice?
Not quite,
but I think I got something
that will help you
with your
leadership problem.
Oh, Dike's being
transferred?
No, I can't help you
with that,
but Division has decided
to pluck one officer
from each regiment
that served
in the heroic defense
of Bastogne,
send him back to the states
on a 30-day furlough.
Get him out banging the drum
for the war bond drive,
that kind
of thing.
It turns out
I've been plucked.
Hey, that's fantastic, Lew,
good for you.
Thank you.
How in the world does
your leaving help me?
It doesn't.
I'm not going.
I've already seen the states.
I grew up there.
That's why
I came to Europe.
I just wish they'd told me
there was a war on.
Anyway, the point is,
this thing's wasted on me.
But I'm sure we can find
an officer somewhere
in this battalion who could
use a long trip home.
Congratulations,
Lieutenant Peacock.
I can't think of anybody
who deserves this more.
Thanks.
(laughter)
I'm really glad
that you're going home.
Okay.
Best news I've heard
in weeks.
Hell of a guy,
hell of a guy.
Thanks, guys, I mean.
It really means
a lot, you know?
Oh, get out of here.
(laughter, chatter)
Three cheers
for Lieutenant Peacock, group.
Hip hip...
All: Hooray.
Hip hip hooray.
Hip hip
hooray.
(film camera clicking)
(no distinct audio)
(laughter)
Sink:
If they come by here,
y'all remember
to smile for the camera.
Got to keep the morale up
for them folks back home.
Why?
Damned if I know.
All right, Nix,
what have they got
waiting for us in Foy?
At least one company
from the 10th Panzergrenadiers
dug in along here.
They've also got
at least one 88,
although we haven't been
able to spot it yet.
How about armor?
As of last night,
three Tigers.
Would you excuse me
for a moment, sir?
Yeah.
Toye:
How do I feel about being
rescued by Patton?
Well, I'd feel
pretty peachy about it,
if it wasn't
for one thing--
we didn't need
to be fucking rescued
by Patton.
You got that?
Joe. Excuse us
for a moment.
Sorry, sir.
Sorry about what?
Patton?
I couldn't
agree more.
What are you
doing here?
I wanna head back
to the line, sir.
Joe, you don't
have to do that.
Get yourself back
to the aid station.
Heal up.
I'd really like to head back
with the fellas, sir.
All right, then go.
Thank you, sir.
Lipton: Joe Toye had been
at the aid station
for three days,
and everybody was glad
to have him back.
Especially
Bill Guarnere.
Hey, Joe.
Hey, Bill.
Good to see you, pal.
You, too.
What the hell
you doing back here?
I had to make sure
you were on top of things.
I'm on top
of things.
Tied me own boots
once last week.
All by myself.
(laughs)
Hey, fellas,
look who I found.
Hey, Joe Toye,
back for more.
Toye: Hey, Muck. How are you?
How are you, Joe?
Yeah, doing pretty good.
Escaped from
the aid station.
Where'd you get hit?
What's that?
Ah, it's Webb.
Replacement.
Really?
Thought it was some guy
I've known for two years
and I forgot his face.
Joe got hit
in the arm.
New Year's Eve gift
from the Luftwaffe.
Jesus.
A lot of you guys
been injured?
It's called "wounded,"
peanut.
Injured's when you fall
out of a tree or something.
Don't worry,
there's enough crap
flying around here,
you're bound
to get dinged sometime.
Almost every single
one of these guys
has been hit
at least once.
Except for Alley,
he's a two-timer.
He landed on broken glass
in Normandy
and got peppered by
a potato masher in Holland.
You'll find out, son.
Now, Bull, he got a piece
of exploding tank in Holland.
And George Luz here...
has never been hit.
You're one
lucky bastard.
Takes one to
know one, Skip.
Ah, consider us
blessed.
Now, Liebgott,
the skinny little guy,
he got pinked
in the neck in Holland.
And right next to him,
that other skinny little guy,
that's Popeye.
He got shot in his scrawny
little butt in Normandy.
And Buck got shot in his
rather large butt in Holland.
Yeah, kind of
an Easy Company tradition,
getting shot
in the ass.
Hey, even 1st Sergeant Lipton
over there,
he got a couple of pieces
of a tank shell burst
at Carentan.
One chunk
in the face.
Another chunk almost
took out his nuts.
How are those nuts,
Sarge?
Doing fine, Bill.
Nice of you
to ask.
Lipton:
On the afternoon
of January 3rd,
most of "E" Company headed
back to our old position
in the woods
overlooking Foy.
A few men remained
in the Bois Jacques
attached to "D" Company
to hold the main line
of resistance.
Good luck, ladies.
Been nice
knowing you.
Wouldn't drink too much
if I were you.
Hey, be careful
if he offers you
a cigarette.
What are they
talking about?
If who offers us
a cigarette?
Speirs.
Who?
Lieutenant Speirs.
Lipton:
Lieutenant Ronald Speirs was
one of the platoon leaders
in "D" Company.
He was already
a legend.
Christenson:
The stories about Speirs are
probably all bullshit anyway.
What stories?
Well, supposedly Speirs
shot one of his own men
for being drunk.
You're kidding.
That's unbelievable.
Yeah, and there's another one
about him giving cigarettes
to 20 German POWs
before killing 'em.
He shot 20 POWs?
Well, actually, I heard
it was more like 30.
Speirs:
Christenson.
Lieutenant Speirs.
I got the name right,
didn't I, Christenson?
Yes, sir.
What are you men
doing out here?
We're watching
the line, sir.
Well, keep up
the good work.
While you're at it, you might
wanna reinforce your cover.
Oh, actually, sir,
Lieutenant Dike said
not even to bother,
that we're only
gonna be here one day.
Lieutenant Dike
said that, huh?
Then forget
what I said.
Carry on.
Oh, anyone
care for a smoke?
You?
Lipton:
Late in the afternoon
on January 3rd,
we returned
to our old position
in the woods overlooking Foy.
Oh, you gotta be
fucking kiddin' me!
Someone's gonna die.
Someone's gonna fucking die.
Guarnere,
look at this shit!
One of those
1st Battalion fuckers
took a dump
in my foxhole!
I think they shit
in everyone's foxhole, Joe.
I don't think
they wanted to spend
much time above ground.
Lipton:
While we were
in the Bois Jacques,
the Germans had been
shelling our old position.
There were signs
of tree bursts everywhere.
That got
our attention.
Man:
Light and noise
discipline.
We're getting close.
Lipton:
Looking across
the field at Foy,
I could see
enemy troops.
I still couldn't see
their artillery,
but I knew it was
down there.
Oh, looks like the Krauts
have been pounding this area
with pretty
big stuff, 88s.
I'd say they got this whole
stretch of the line targeted.
Well, they're
not shelling now.
Maybe they've got
a new target--
No, they're
just waiting.
For what?
For us to re-occupy
the position.
Maybe we should
fall back to a different
location, dig in.
No, it's our job
to hold the line here.
We've got pretty
good foxholes.
We just need
to fortify the covers.
If they've got us
targeted, maybe--
We hold the line here.
Sergeant
Lipton's right.
We're gonna
strengthen our covers
and we're gonna hang in.
We're not gonna
fall back.
Right, Lieutenant?
Mmm?
Fine. You all
take care of it.
I gotta go talk
to regiment.
We'd better
get moving.
Yeah.
Here you go, Bill.
Hey, thanks, Lip.
You got it. I'll get
you some more branches.
I'd appreciate that.
Yup.
(artillery firing)
(shell whooshes)
(explosions)
Incoming!
Take cover!
Man: Move it!
(men shouting)
Take cover! Come on,
find some cover.
Guarnere:
They got us zeroed!
Find some cover,
find a foxhole!
Come on,
take cover!
Take cover!
Come on,
find some cover!
Take cover!
Shit.
Come on, find some cover,
find some cover!
Lipton:
For some reason,
at that moment,
in that half-finished foxhole,
all I could think about
was the 4th of July
when I was a kid.
I loved to make
my own firecrackers,
cherry bombs,
lady fingers.
I loved to blow up dirt clods
and pop bottles and the like.
Looked forward to it
all year long.
What I saw that day
was the most awesome
and terrifying
display of firepower
I'd ever seen
in my life.
(laughing)
Of course, I wouldn't
have been laughing
if I'd known
what happened
to Joe Toye.
(grunting)
(wheezing)
Maybe we should see
if anybody's hit.
Yeah, Malark,
that's what they want.
The Krauts are trying
to draw us out in the open.
Stay in
your foxholes.
Stay in your
foxholes!
Are you okay?
Can you walk?
Come on,
find a foxhole, come on.
Toye:
I gotta get up.
I need my helmet.
(distant shout)
I need help!
You hear that?
Is that Joe?
Help!
Yeah, I think that's Joe.
Stay.
Stay down!
Stay in your
foxholes!
Stay in
your foxholes!
Heffron: Help!
Help, anyone there?
Jesus.
I gotta get up.
I gotta--
Shit.
Come on, Joe,
come on, buddy.
Come on.
Come on, pal.
You said you'd get back
to the states before me.
You ain't going anywhere.
You're all right.
(screams)
I gotta get my helmet.
Forget it.
I gotta get
my helmet.
Forget it, Joe.
Anyone there?
Hang on.
Help!
Who's that?
Heffron:
It's Heff. Babe.
Come on, get me
out of here, Lip.
Come on.
I gotta get to the hole.
I got you.
I gotta get to the foxhole.
Come on, Joe,
I got you.
(grunting)
Come on, Joe.
Hang on.
Are you okay?
Yeah.
Come on, come on.
Ah, jeez, think I overdid it
on the cover for my foxhole?
Incoming!
Man: Incoming!
Take cover!
Come on, come on!
Hurry up, Guarno,
you're gonna get bombed!
Come on, come on!
Move it, Bill! Move it!
Come on, Joe.
Hold on, I'll be there,
I'm gonna help you.
No!
Medic!
Lipton:
During the second barrage
I wasn't laughing anymore.
Lip!
Medic!
Are you okay?
(distant shouting)
Stay down!
You stay down!
1st Sergeant Lipton?
You get things
organized here.
I'm gonna go for help.
What the fuck?
Lip, where the fuck's
he going?
I don't know.
Listen, get Battalion
on the line.
Tell them
to notify B.A.S.
Battalion's up, Lip.
M-m-- m--
medic!
Stay ready,
stay ready.
Those stupid
sons of bitches might be
trying to come through.
You okay, One Lung?
Sergeant!
How you doing,
Popeye?
One hundred percent ready
to kill Germans, Lip.
(groaning)
Okay, Joe.
Doc, what can I do?
Hold this.
You got a smoke?
Jesus, what's a guy gotta do
to get killed around here?
Joe.
Bill, you're
going first.
Whatever you say, doc,
whatever you say.
Over here!
Take this man.
Hey, Lip, they got
old Guarnere this time.
We got you, soldier.
(screams)
Just lie back.
Take it easy.
Hey, Joe, I told you I'd beat
you back to the states.
Hey, Lip.
How's Buck?
Luz, how's Buck?
He's fine.
You sure?
Yes, he's fine.
I think you should probably
go talk to him now, huh?
All right.
Lipton:
Some say Buck changed
after he was shot in Holland.
Lieutenant.
Maybe...
but I know something
happened to him,
when he saw
Toye and Guarnere
on the ground.
It's all right.
(chattering)
Lipton:
On the report it said Compton
was being taken off the line
because of a bad case
of trenchfoot.
Didn't say anything about
him losing his friends.
Man:
Try and squeeze my hand.
Lipton: Buck was
a great combat leader.
He was wounded
in Normandy
and again
in Holland.
He received the Silver Star
for his part in taking out
those German guns
on D day.
He took everything
the Krauts could throw
at him time and again.
Lieutenant Compton?
Malarkey:
"UCLA did not make
the Rose Bowl this winter,
"probably because
you weren't there.
"I'm sure you're teaching
all of your young soldiers
"the joy you have
of the sport.
"Gosh, how we all know what
an exciting young man you are,
and how your heart
and love..."
Lipton:
I guess he just couldn't
take seeing his friends,
Toye and Guarnere,
all torn up like that.
No one ever thought
any less of him for it.
Hey, Bull.
Lipton:
With Buck off the line,
there was
no longer any possible
alternative to Dike.
He went that way
a little while ago.
Lipton:
At least none
we could see.
Thanks.
Hey, Muck.
Muck.
Yes, Sergeant?
I'm looking
for Lieutenant Dike.
We were stuck
with Dike.
I think he's over there.
And he was off
taking a walk.
Thanks.
Sure thing.
Winters:
Lightning six kidnap.
Ah, yes, sir.
We've cleared all the green
area between, er...
Lipton:
We'd cleared the woods
east of Foy.
So, a few days later
"E" Company and the rest
of the 506
cleared the woods
west of Foy.
There was little
resistance.
We have KIA...
13.
Luz: You fellas
know I got no reason
to bullshit you, right?
Man: Yeah, right.
(laughing)
Look, I'm not gonna
bullshit you.
This is
what I saw.
It was so unbelievable,
you might not believe me.
So, you-know-who comes
running up to Lipton.
He's got no helmet,
no gear, no nothing.
(mimics Dike)
"Ah, 1st Sergeant Lipton,
you organize things here,
"and I'm gonna
go for... help.
I need to go polish
my oak leaf clusters."
(clears throat)
Hey, Luz.
A complete asshole.
That's really good.
It's okay.
Um, fellas.
Goodnight,
goodnight all.
Yeah, see you, Luz.
See you, Malark.
What can I do
for you, Sarge?
Two things. First,
great impression of Dike.
You think so?
I thought it
was a little off.
No, you got it
pretty good.
Second,
don't do it any more,
especially the part about
what he said to me.
It doesn't do
anybody any good, okay?
Yeah, I got you.
All right.
(mimics Dike yawning)
(chuckles)
Wise ass.
Incoming!
Luz!
Come on!
Hurry!
Luz!
Stay down!
Come on!
Get in here!
Luz!
Come on!
Come on! Luz!
(grunts)
Muck and Penkala!
What?
Muck and Penkala
got hit!
Ahh!
Medic!
Hashey.
It's my shoulder.
Come on,
get up!
Man:
Stay down 'til you
get the all clear.
(hissing)
(distant shouting)
Man:
All clear!
(lighter clinks, flicks)
Thought you
didn't smoke.
I don't.
Uh-huh.
Lipton: The shell
that hit the foxhole Luz
and I were in was a dud.
The one that hit Muck
and Penkala's foxhole wasn't.
That's just
the way it was.
Muck and Penkala
were good men.
Their death hit Malarkey
the hardest.
Malarkey's best friends
in the company
had been Compton,
Muck, and Penkala.
In less than a week,
he'd seen two of them die.
What's the word?
Well, the men on
the line are okay.
Food has just
been re-supplied.
We're in good shape.
Okay, we'll just
hunker down.
We might get
some relief soon.
Uh-huh.
Okay?
All right.
Lipton:
Later that day we were
back in our old position,
overlooking Foy.
We were all worried
about Malarkey.
Lipton:
Hey, Malark.
Hey, er...
Didn't I hear you say
you wanted to bring
a Luger home
for your kid brother?
Yeah.
Well, why don't you--
why don't you
give him that?
It's Hoob's, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, I was gonna
get rid of it,
but I-- I don't know.
Listen, Cap'n Winters
was wondering if you wanted
to go back
to Battalion and...
work as his runner
for a few days.
Tell him thanks, I'm--
I'm gonna stay here.
Well, look,
why don't you
at least come back
for an hour or so,
say goodbye to Buck.
I'm sure it'll
mean a lot to him.
All right.
You be careful
with that.
Yeah.
Lipton:
Getting even 50 yards
back from the line,
just for an hour or two
could make a big difference
in a soldier's
state of mind.
The morning after the shelling
that killed Muck and Penkala,
I saw a soldier try to dig
a foxhole with his bare hands.
Private.
He didn't notice that he'd
torn off all his fingernails.
Private.
I got him out
of there quickly.
Not for his sake,
but for ours.
Fear is poison
in combat.
It's something we all felt,
but you just didn't show it.
You can't.
It's destructive
and it's contagious.
Told you I'd
get you started.
Man:
We got a bleeder here.
Lipton:
Buck was never the same
after seeing
Toye and Guarnere
get hit that day.
I guess he just needed
some time away from it all.
Boys.
Lipton:
The barrages
on January 3rd
and the shelling
on January 9th
marked the low point
in the war
for many of the men
in "E" Company.
Even then,
very few actually broke.
But I knew the terror
of those shellings
and the unrelenting
pressure we'd been under
since we got to Bastogne
could take their toll
in other ways.
I was afraid the men
would lose focus,
suffer a drop
in morale.
And that was dangerous,
especially in combat.
More of which lay
in store for us.
Perconte.
Hey.
Lipton:
We'd cleared the woods
east and west of Foy.
Now it was time
for the inevitable assault
on Foy, itself.
Frankly,
I was dreading it.
I always knew
the "E" Company men
who trained at Toccoa
wouldn't get through
the war unscathed,
but now I was
beginning to wonder
if any of us were gonna
make it through at all.
Hey, Lieb.
"E" Company
would lead the attack.
The problem was,
at least in my estimation,
"E" Company still
did not have a leader.
(shouting in German)
The night before the attack,
I did something
as 1st Sergeant,
I would never have
imagined myself doing.
Lip.
Didn't figure you
for a smoking man.
Neither did I.
"D" Company,
Lieutenant Speirs,
patrol order.
So...?
We've been
watching Foy all day, sir,
not much activity.
Want a coffee?
No, thank you, sir.
How's Easy's status?
The men are good, sir,
they're prepared.
I'm gonna be leading
2nd Platoon, tomorrow.
They're probably
the weakest after losing Toye,
and Guarnere,
and Muck, and Penkala.
But all in all, I have every
confidence in the men, sir.
Good.
But, on the other hand,
I have no confidence
in our C.O., sir.
Lieutenant Dike is
an empty uniform, Captain.
He's just...
He's not there, sir.
Well, he's gonna
be there tomorrow.
Yes, sir, I understand
he will be there physically.
But tomorrow's
gonna be the real deal,
and he's gonna
have to lead those men.
He's gonna have to make
decisions, sir, and I...
I gotta tell you, sir,
I think he's gonna get
a lot of
Easy Company men killed.
Thank you, Sergeant,
that'll be all.
Yes, sir.
Lipton:
I said what I had to say.
There was nothing
Winters could do.
He couldn't very well
remove a company C.O.,
especially
a well-connected one,
because of the misgivings
of a company 1st Sergeant.
Winters: You've got
about an eighth of a mile
of open field to cross
before we get down
here into Foy.
There's very little cover,
so you've gotta move quickly.
I've set up two sections
of light machine guns
at either end, here.
They'll give you
covering fire.
3rd Battalion will
led by "I" Company.rom the east,
That should
cause distraction.
"D" Company
will be in reserve,
but we shouldn't need 'em.
The point is,
you gotta move in there fast.
Get in there before
they can bring their mortars
and artillery
down on you.
Clear?
Clear.
I'm relying on you.
Get it done.
♪ ♪
(machine-gun fire)
Man:
Covering fire!
Let's go!
Keep it moving!
Suppressing fire!
Keep moving!
Move!
(speaking German)
Let's go,
let's go!
Suppressing fire!
Fire!
Keep 'em tight, Shames.
Keep moving.
Keep coming!
Come on.
Leibgott:
Krauts in the open!
Keep moving!
Three inside!
Wait a minute.
Where's Foley?
Randleman!
Liebgott.
Where the hell
is 1st Platoon?
Hold up!
Keep moving!
Easy Company,
hold up!
2nd Platoon, hold up!
Will you move!
Get me Foley
on the radio.
Get out of there, move!
Sir, I think
we should take cover.
Find some cover!
What?
Stay down!
Easy Red,
Easy Red, Easy Six, over.
Six, Easy Red,
go ahead.
Easy Red, Easy Red,
stand by for the six.
Foley, Foley,
you get back here
where I can
see you, godammit!
1st Platoon,
hold up, hold up.
Take cover!
Martin.
Come on, soldier,
with me.
With you, sir.
Fire!
Fall back!
Take cover!
Godammit.
Go forward!
Herron, on me.
Move back.
Fall back!
Stay on my ass.
Hold fast,
2nd Platoon.
Follow Lipton!
Take cover!
What are we doing,
Lieutenant?
Why are we stopped?
Fall back!
Standby to six.
Roger kidnap.
Foley: Lieutenant,
what's the plan?
I don't know,
I don't know, I don't know!
You'd better get Dike
on that radio to me now.
Lieutenant,
what's the plan?
Captain Winters, sir.
What's the plan?
Okay, okay, Foley.
Foley, you take
your men--
you take your men
on a flanking mission
around the village,
and attack it
from the rear.
Dike, we cannot
stay here!
You want 1st Platoon
to go 'round
and attack the village
by itself?
We will provide
suppressing fire.
We're gonna be kind of
alone out there, Lieutenant.
We will provide
suppressing fire!
Ahh!
Get going forward!
You need to talk
to Captain Winters, sir.
Sir.
Okay, here it is.
We go on a flanking run
'round the back
of the village,
and we attack
from the rear.
Ramirez, two guys,
take 'em, go.
Find some cover
behind the stable.
Go, go!
Shit!
Jesus Christ.
Webb, move up,
find cover!
Suppressing fire, now!
Perconte!
I got you.
Give me some cover!
How you doing,
Perconte?
They shot me
in my ass, Martin.
You're all right,
stay down, stay down!
I think
we lost five men.
Can you locate?
The building
with the caved-in roof.
The building with
the caved-in roof.
Sir, we are
sitting ducks here.
We have to
keep moving!
You've got
to keep moving!
Sink:
Dick! Captain Winters.
Godammit, you do not
go out there.
You're
the battalion commander.
Now get back here!
Now, Dick, I understand your
attachment to Easy Company--
Speirs, get yourself
over here!
Get out there and relieve Dike
and take that attack on in.
Webb, fall back,
you're too exposed.
Come on, Webb.
Let's go, kid.
Hang on, Perco.
Fire!
Lieutenant,
what are we doing?
I'm taking over.
1st Sergeant Lipton!
Here!
What have we got?
Sir, most of the company
is spread out here.
1st Platoon
tried an end around
but they're stretched out,
they're pinned down
by a sniper.
I believe he's in the building
with the caved-in roof.
All right, I want mortars
and grenade launchers
on that building
'till it's gone.
When it's gone,
I want 1st to go straight in,
forget going around.
Everybody else, follow me.
Both: Yes, sir.
Thank god, huh?
All right,
3rd Platoon move out.
3rd Platoon,
let's go, go, go!
All right, you heard the word,
2nd Platoon, on the C.O.!
Sergeant Alley!
Got it, Sarge.
Okay, 1st Platoon,
move out! Move out!
On your feet,
2nd Platoon.
Move out!
Second, move out!
Get on your
goddamn feet.
Come on!
Come on, Luz,
let's get the bastards.
Fire!
Come on,
move out!
Man: Fire!
Fire!
Take cover!
Go, go, go!
Come on, come on.
Hey, you, get over here.
(men shouting)
Fire!
Sir.
Lipton.
Oh!
Streetfight item,
streetfight item.
Easy six, over.
Speirs:
What do you see,
Lipton?
Lipton:
Armor and infantry,
a lot of infantry.
"I" Company's supposed to be
on the other side of the town.
D'you see
any sign of them?
Radio, anything?
No, sir.
Sir, I think
they're gonna pull back.
If we don't connect with "I,"
they gonna slip away.
That's right.
Wait here.
Item, item,
easy six.
What the hell?
(speaking German)
Lipton:
At first the Germans
didn't shoot at him.
♪ ♪
I think they
couldn't quite believe
what they were seeing.
But that wasn't
the really astounding thing.
The astounding thing was
that after he hooked up
with "I" Company...
he came back.
Men:
♪ I've been working
on the railroad ♪
♪ All the live long day ♪
♪ I've been working
on the railroad ♪
Lipton:
We took over
100 German prisoners.
After that
it was mostly clean up.
Let's go,
move it, move it!
Take 'em down
to the barn.
♪ Rise up early
in the morn ♪
Sit down.
(gunshots)
Sniper!
Take cover,
take cover!
Come on, come on.
Where is he?
Shit, I can't see him.
Second floor,
building on the right.
Don't miss, Shifty.
Now!
(men cheering)
All right!
Yeah!
Man:
Over here.
I need help
over here.
Can you guys help me?
Medic! I need
a medic over here!
Lipton:
Mellet, Herron,
Sowosko, and Ken Webb
were killed
by a sniper.
There would've been more
if it hadn't been
for Shifty Powers.
(chattering)
Sergeant:
...walking wounded
to the aid station.
Man:
Yes, Sergeant.
♪ ♪
You hit bad,
Perconte?
Beautiful wound, Lip.
They shot me
right through my ass.
You hang tough.
Hey, Sarge.
Yeah?
Is it true
about Dike?
Yeah.
Thank god
for small mercies, huh?
Yeah.
Lipton:
We'd been looking down
at the town of Foy
for the better part
of a month,
knowing that's where
we had to go.
It was a great relief
to have done it.
I guess a lot
of the men thought
once we'd taken Foy,
they'd get us off the line,
ship us back to Mourmelon
for a breather.
But that
wasn't to be.
Two days later,
we took Noville,
and after that,
Rachamps.
(singing)
Lipton:
We spent our night
in Rachamps in a convent.
It was the first time
we'd spent a night indoors
in a month.
The sisters there brought in
their choir to sing for us.
It was heaven.
The mood of the men
was relaxed.
We were finally
being relieved
and would soon
be in Mourmelon.
Of course,
in the morning we found out
Mourmelon would
have to wait.
Hitler had launched
a counter-offensive in Alsace,
and we were bound
for the town of Hagenau
to help
hold the line.
But at least for that night
we didn't know it yet.
That night
we were okay.
(singing continues)
I spent part
of that night
trying to come up
with a roster
for the company
to see who we had left.
We'd come into Belgium
with 121 men and officers,
plus 24 replacements.
That's 145 total.
We were going out
with 63.
Guarnere was badly wounded
and Hoobler died accidentally.
Joe Toye had
lost his leg.
Among the dead
were Herron, Mellet,
Sowosko, Kenneth Webb,
Harold Webb,
Alex Penkala,
and Skip Muck.
Our month in Belgium
cost us one good officer,
Buck Compton,
and one bad one,
Norman Dike.
But we gained
a good one in the end,
so I guess
we came out ahead.
(clearing throat)
What is it?
Nothing.
Well, I'd better
get back to Battalion
before they disappear.
You wanna ask me,
don't you?
Ask you what, sir?
You wanna know
if they're true or not,
the stories about me.
Did you ever notice
with stories like that,
everyone says they heard it
from someone who was there,
but then when
you ask that person,
they say they heard it
from someone who was there.
It's nothing new, really.
I bet if you went
back 2,000 years,
you'd hear a couple
of centurions standing around
and yakking about how
Tercius lopped off the heads
of some
Carthaginian prisoners.
Well, maybe they
kept talking about it
because they never heard
Tercius deny it.
Well, maybe that's
because Tercius
knew there was some
value to the men
thinking he was the meanest,
toughest son of a bitch
in the whole
Roman Legion.
Sir?
These men aren't really
concerned about the stories.
They're just glad
to have you as our C.O.
They're happy to have
a good leader again.
Well, from what I've heard,
they've always had one.
I've been told there's
always been one man
they could count on.
Led 'em into
the Bois Jacques,
held them together when
they had the crap shelled
out of 'em In the woods.
Every day he kept
the spirits up,
kept the men focused,
gave 'em direction.
All the things
a good combat leader does.
You don't have any idea
who I'm talking about, do you?
No, sir.
Hell, it was you,
1st Sergeant.
Ever since Winters
made Battalion,
you've been
the leader of Easy Company.
Oh...
And you're not gonna be
1st Sergeant.much longer,
Sir?
Winters put in
for a battlefield commission,
and Sink approved
on your behalf.
You should get
the official nod
in a few days.
Congratulations,
Lieutenant.
♪ ♪
Hey, look,
it's 1st Battalion.
Hey! Hey!
Man: What do you want?
Yeah, thanks for crapping
in our foxholes,
you shitheads.
Hey, it's our pleasure.
Luz: Yeah.
Enjoy the walk, boys.
(lighter clinks, flicks)
Man:
There they go, Easy Company
riding out again.
♪ ♪
(theme music playing)